# Gold-Price-forecasting-using-Arima-Time-Series
Previously, gold was only acquired in India at marriages or other rites. Still, as its  significance has grown in the eyes of investors, it has become vital to forecast the price of  gold using an appropriate approach. This research provides an inside look at how an ARIMA  time series model was used to anticipate the future gold price in an Indian browser using  historical data from January 2011 to December 2020 to limit the risk associated with gold  purchases. Thus, to guide investors over when to purchase or sell the yellow metal. Time  series analysis is a well-known technique for anticipating the future values of variables. By  studying patterns in a time series, time series forecasting methods account for the variable's  changes over time. This project aims to do a time series analysis and predict monthly average  gold prices using the Box-Jenkins approach. The purpose of this research was to create an  appropriate gold price forecasting model. The Augmented Dickey-Fuller test was used to  determine stationarity, as well as charts. By analyzing numerous data and predicted errors,  the best match was clinched. All investors are pretty interested in the trajectory of the gold  price, whether it will increase or decrease. Gold's price has been a popular discussion topic in  recent months since it has fluctuated significantly over several months. Autoregressive  Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) model is chosen using the Box-Jenkins approach.  Physical gold is a significant asset for Indian investors, whereas global gold investments are  seen as a hedging tool that diversifies an investor's portfolio.
